Apache HTTP Server
This is the most popular web server in the world developed by the Apache Software Foundation.
 Apache web server is an open source software and can be installed on almost all operating systems
 including Linux, Unix, Windows, FreeBSD, Mac OS X and more. About 60% of the web server machines run 
the Apache Web Server.
You can have Apache with tomcat module to have JSP and J2EE related support.
You can have detailed information about this server at Apache HTTP Server
Internet Information Services
The Internet Information Server (IIS) is a high performance Web Server from Microsoft. This web server 
runs on Windows NT/2000 and 2003 platforms ( and may be on upcoming new Windows version also). IIS comes
 bundled with Windows NT/2000 and 2003; Because IIS is tightly integrated with the operating system so it 
is relatively easy to administer it.
You can have detailed information about this server at Miscrosoft IIS
 lighttpd
The lighttpd, pronounced lighty is also a free web server that is distributed with the FreeBSD operating system.
 This open source web server is fast, secure and consumes much less CPU power. Lighttpd can also run on Windows,
 Mac OS X, Linux and Solaris operating systems.
You can have detailed information about this server at lighttpd
 Sun Java System Web Server
This web server from Sun Microsystems is suited for medium and large websites. Though the server is free it is
 not open source. It however, runs on Windows, Linux and Unix
platforms. The Sun Java System web server supports various languages, scripts and technologies required for Web
 2.0 such as JSP, Java Servlets, PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby on Rails, ASP and Coldfusion etc.
You can have detailed information about this server at Sun Java System Web Server
 Jigsaw Server
Jigsaw (W3C's Server) comes from the World Wide Web Consortium. It is open source and free and can run on 
various platforms like Linux, Unix, Windows, Mac OS X Free BSD etc. Jigsaw has been written in Java and can
 run CGI scripts and PHP programs.
You can have detailed information about this server at Jigsaw Server

