What is HTTP?
HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol, and it is a protocol—or a prescribed order and syntax for
 presenting information—used for transferring data over a network. Most information that is sent over 
the Internet, including website content and API calls, uses the HTTP protocol.
There are two main kinds of HTTP messages: requests and responses. HTTP requests are generated by a
 user's browser as the user interacts with web properties. For example, if a user clicks on a hyperlink, 
the browser will send a series of "HTTP GET" requests for the content that appears on that page. These HTTP 
requests go to either an origin server or a proxy caching server, and that server will generate an HTTP response.
 HTTP responses are answers to HTTP requests.
HTTP requests and responses are sent across the Internet in plaintext. The problem is that anyone monitoring 
the connection can read these plaintexts. This is especially an issue when users submit sensitive data via a
 website or a web application. This could be a password, a credit card number, or any other data typed into a
 form. Essentially, a malicious actor can just read the text in the request or the response and know exactly 
what information someone is asking for, sending, or receiving, and even manipulate the
communication.
The answer to above security problem is HTTPS.
What is HTTPS?
HTTPS stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (also referred to as HTTP over TLS or HTTP over SSL). 
HTTPS uses TLS (or SSL) to encrypt HTTP requests and responses, so instead of the plaintext, an attacker
 would see a series of seemingly random characters.
TLS uses a technology called public key encryption: there are two keys, a public key and a private key. 
The public key is shared with client devices via the server's SSL certificate. The certificates are 
cryptographically signed by a Certificate Authority (CA), and each browser has a list of CAs it implicitly 
trusts. Any certificate signed by a CA in the trusted list is given a green padlock lock in the browser’s
 address bar, because it is proven to be “trusted” and belongs to that domain. Companies like Let’s Encrypt
 have now made the process of issuing SSL/TLS certificates free.
Differences between HTTP and HTTPS
Based on the above presentation of HTTP and HTTPS, the following table presents the main differences between
 those two protocols.
 

